INSTALLING ARCRUNNER

Arcrunner is a program, developed at CSC. You can use it in the Hippu.csc.fi servers or 
you can download it to your local computer. To run arc_runner you need to have ARC 11-5 or newer and python 2.6 or newer installed to you computer.

Once you have downloaded the installation file, unpack it with command:

  tar zxf arcrunner.tgz

After that move to the arcrunner/bin directory:

  cd  arcrunner/bin

And modify the fift row of the file: arcrunner so that the jobmanagerpath variable
to corresponds the location of your arcrunner installation. For example if you have 
dowloaded and unpacked arcrunner inatallation packake to directory /opt/grid the
jobmanagerpath definining line shouild be:

  set jobmanagerpath=("/opt/grid/arcrunner")

After this the only thing left to do is to add arcrunner to your command path.





USING ARCRUNNER

The minimum input for arc_runner command is:

   arcrunner -xrsl job_descriptionfile.xrsl

When the arc_runner is launched, it first checks all the sub-directories of 
the current directory. If xrsl formatted job description file, defined with 
the option -xrsl, is found from the subfolder then the script submits the
job to be executed in FGI environment.

In the cases of large amounts of grid jobs, all jobs are not submitted at once.
In these cases arc_runner tries to optimize the usage of the grid environment. 
It follows how many jobs are queuing in the clusters and sends more jobs only
when there are free resources available. The command also keeps a track on the 
executed grid jobs and starts sending more jobs to those clusters that execute 
the jobs most efficiently. If you don't want to use all the FGI clusters, 
you can use cluster list file and option -R to define what clusters will be used.

The maximum number of jobs, waiting to be executed, can be defined with option: -W. 
If some job stays queuing for too long time, it is withdrawn from this stalled 
queue and submitted to another cluster. The maximum  queuing time (in seconds) 
can be set with option -Q

As some of the clusters may not work properly and part of the jobs may fail 
due to technical reasons.  If this happens, the failed grid jobs are re-submitted 
to other clusters three times before they are considered as failed sub-jobs.  

During execution, arc_runner checks the status of the sub-jobs once in a 
minute and prints you the status of each active sub-job. Finally it writes 
out a summary table about sub-jobs.

When a job finishes successfully, the job-manager retrieves the result files 
from the grid to the grid job directory.


arcrunner options:
Option             Description
-xrsl file_name    The common xrsl file name that defines the jobs.
-R file_name       Text file containing the names of the clusters to be used.
-W integer         Maximum number of jobs in the grid waiting to run. (Default 200).
-Q integer         The maximum time a jobs stays in a queue before being resubmitted. (Default 3600s).
-S integer         The maximum time a jobs stays in submitted state before being resubmitted. (Default 3600s).
-J integer         Maximum number of simultaneous jobs running in the grid. (Default 1000 jobs).

